# Synthetic-Aperture-Radar-image-segmentationusing-an-Attention-based-Residual-U-Net

With ever-increasing satellites orbiting the earth, there is a vast amount of data generated about our planet. The information generated by these satellites is beyond human intellectual capabilities due to its dense nature. Therefore, to aid humans make the best use of the information, various computer algorithms are deployed specifically for a particular challenge, ranging from weather information to topography change. One such application is finding how much per cent of the Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) image is covered by various regions such as land and water. This information can further be used to make further conclusions such as finding flood-affected areas, the Intensity of flood, etc. But due to Satellite Aperture Radar (SAR) image’s large size, one cannot use conventional computer vision strategies like for normal JPEG or PNG images. Therefore, to properly and effectively segment SAR images, we propose an attention-based model that uses a U-netbased architecture to find various regions. The attention unit consists of two sub-units namely, the Channel unit to extract “what” is meaningful from the SAR image and the Spatial unit to extract “where” is the meaningful information in a SAR image. In this proposal, we’ll be comparing four Attention module architectures and then choosing the best one to segment the SAR images. To further enhance the segmentation, we propose a residual block instead of a convolution block in the conventional U-net architecture, to allow fine features to be extracted.

Please refer the Paper.pdf to read the research paper of the project.
